# get-lazy-with-llms-clinic (by humans for humans) 🤝
A toolkit and guide for using LLMs effectively on moderately complex tasks through better prompting.

Throughout this repository we will use emojis in document titles: 
- 🤝 written by humans and intended for humans to read 
- ✍️🦾 drafted by humans and phrased by LLMs
- 🦾👌 generated by LLMs and checked or edited by humans
- 🦾 generated by LLMs and **NOT** checked by humans

## What this repository includes
1. `/theory`:
   - [*"I can't rely on an LLM to do this..."* - Try better prompts!](/theory/Examples%20of%20Better%20Prompts.md)
   - [Use LLMs to Help You Write Better Prompts](./theory/Use%20LLMs%20to%20Help%20You%20Write%20a%20Better%20Prompt.md)
   - [Best Practices for Solving Tasks with LLMs](./theory/Best%20Practices%20for%20Solving%20Tasks%20with%20LLMs.md)
   - [A list of recommended tools](./theory/Recommended%20Tools.md)
2. `/practice`: walkthroughs for solving tasks with LLMs:
    - [example 1: explain a concept from Earth Surface Modelling](./practice/01_explain_concept/README.md)
    - [example 2: generate a model skeleton](./practice/02_generate_landlab_model/README.md) that uses the [landlab framework](https://landlab.csdms.io/)
    - example 3: containerize an existing Earth Surface Modeling Application (from example 2)
    - example 4: create a python CLI tool to convert contents of a directory into a single text file for LLMs
    - example 5: create a python CLI tool to help you build better prompts: promptbuilder tool

## Recommendations on how to use this repository
### 30 seconds: read
Dissatisfied with LLM results? Cannot rely on LLM information? - **use better prompts**:

**For any task:**

Never write the prompt yourself. The LLM has seen a HUGE amount of questions and answers from the internet. It knows how to formulate prompts. Give the LLM your TASK and ask to write a better prompt for you. Supply additional instructions or context if needed.

**For coding tasks:**
1. Ask LLM to come up with an *implementation plan* first.
2. Ask LLM to *plan* a *testing strategy*.
3. Generate *tests* and check them manually. Ask to test the *functionality, not implementation*. This is your source of truth.
4. Ask to split the *plan* into modular TODOs.
5. Use [TDD (Test Driven Development)](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/TestDrivenDevelopment.html) when iterating on TODOs
6. For *debugging* ask LLM: *"Add debug logs, so that I can give you the output for bug analysis. YOU ARE ALLOWED TO ADD DEBUG LOGS ONLY. DO NOT CHANGE ANY OTHER CODE."*
7. Once a TODO is implemented and tests pass, commit.

**For tasks with "unknown unknowns":** ask LLM to give you best practices on how to accomplish the task.
Ask to provide trustworthy sources and order them by importance.

---

### 5 minutes: read
1. use https://gitingest.com/ to convert this whole repo into a single text file (`REPO_CONTENT`). Ask an LLM (for example Gemini 2.5 Pro using [https://aistudio.google.com/](https://aistudio.google.com/)) to summarize it for you:
    
    ```yml
        "I am a <ROLE> (e.g., product manager, software architect, researcher).         
        Given the following repository content, create a clear, concise briefing document I can read in under 5 minutes. Focus on summarizing the purpose, key components, examples, theoretical resoning and any critical considerations. The tone should be informative and executive-friendly. Here's the content:        
        <REPO_CONTENT>"
    ```
---

### 15 minutes: read
1. Use the prompt above and read the LLM summary **(5 min)**. 
2. Choose an example from `/practice`that is relevant to your work and follow it's walktrough **(10 min)**

---

### 30 minutes: read + practice
1. Clone this repo to your computer
2. Continue with this README.md
3. Choose an example that is relevant to you and follow the walkthrough
4. Ask the LLM to make some small changes in the existing code. Copy/paste the existing code manually or using [`gitingest`](https://github.com/cyclotruc/gitingest) to combine all the code into a single text file.
5. Regenerate tool code by modifying existing requirement documents and generating code changes
6. Generate new tools

## Choose an LLM Provider
Here is an [incomplete list of LLM providers](./theory/LLM%20Providers.md) for reference.
But you can skip the list and use, what we are using right now:
- for quick general questions: https://chat.openai.com/
- for coding (generous free tier with a google account): https://aistudio.google.com/ 
- for chatting with your documents (generous free tier with a google account): https://notebooklm.google/
- for research (free tier available) https://www.perplexity.ai/

## Further reading
[Curated LLM Resources](./theory/Curated%20LLM%20Resources.md)